Session Overview
-----------------
a) Shell introduction
b) Github signup
c) Repo creation
d) GitHub token
e) Committing and pushing changes to GitHub
f) Quiz


In Last few sessions we completed
Linux
Expenses Project

Shell Script
-------------
We are doing project Manually there are
3 servers...

What is configuring the server?
--------------------------------
installed application runtime --> nodejs [nothing but nodejs]
downloaded code
created a directory
created a user for our application
unzip the code
installed node js depenedencies
created systemctl service
configured mysql details
start the server
These are the steps we did to configure the server. 
i.e in a plain server we setup and installed our application properly

What does it mean we are configuring our laptop? Installing all those things which are necessary to make our laptop usable is nothing but configuring our laptop.
Initially we will install the OS.
Configuring our username and password during installation process
necessary softwares are installed [like vlc media player, google chrome, zoom, notepad++ etc]
if we are installing packages means that is nothing but configuring the laptop.

In the same if we are installing all those as described above means is nothing but configuring the server to use the applicaiton inside it.

DB [Configuring]
-------------------
install mysql server
configure password
start the server

Frontend [Configuring]
-----------------------
install nginx
start nginx
downloaded the code
unzipped
configured backend details
start the server

here, small project so 3 servers. if it is a big project then 15 servers or more will be there. if it is a big project we manually logging inside and performing configuring the server steps as above. it is complex.

our expense project configuring manually [running those commands manually] --> it took 15 min
if big project with 20 servers --> 30 min [even if you do fastly atleast 30 min]

if any server crashes or any other problem in the server then we have to immediately create a new server and run those configuring steps properly and clear errors then again you will take 10-15 min.

Deployment
-----------
releasing new version

download android latest version
switch off phone
install latest version
start the phone

same way upgrade/releasing/deploying the new application everything is same.

upgrade/releasing/deploying the new application
------------------------------------------------
download the 

7:42





